# Grind ladder games 

Date: 12-3-2024

Okay, I need to separate out the moral concerns with designing a game in this way 

# Anonymous PvP Matchmaking 

League of legends, fighting games, BTD Battles... this is a universal concept. I dunno, it feels like 

- Most of the time, you just don't take it that seriously.
- If you do take it seriously, like, sorry, it's hell. The whole concept of climbing is exploiting the mistakes of people weaker than you, like idk man. 

Anonymous matchmaking is so prone to brainrotting, and even when you do take it seriously (not an easy task, autopilot is the default for these games), there's often just so much you have to keep in mind and it's just like... ugh. 

I'm sorry, but online competitive ladder grinding is just fundamentally not a good activity. I can't describe why, but from my decades of experience, yeah caring way too much about those stats is unhealthy.

But then how are you supposed to measure progression then? 

# "Scrimming" (intentionally playing games with people you know)

Alongside matchmaking comes the private rooms. If you have a good community, great. If you don't, especially as a new player... tough luck. 

The above two approaches are staples in online PvP gaming, but obviously this takes more effort to set up so people are mostly resigned to just online matchmaking.

# Chess tactics websites

I think it's a cool community, though a lot of tactics nowadays are just generated by looking at real games such that there's exactly 1 winning sequence of moves that flips the game around entirely. 

# Sports 

Let's take sports as an example. 

- If you like basketball, you can just play with the ball, practice shooting shots, without the pressure or need to play in a game. 
- It's healthy
- You're ultimately playing with a bunch of friends, instead of a bunch of strangers (so you're "scrimming" most of the time)

And this is why I think single-player granularity is important. 

Though I suppose you can't really take basketball out of the equation into daily life, huh. Not many people write about their form in basketball casually. Hm. 

# Arcade culture

Arcade culture is very similar to casual sports culture, actually. You go to your local community where you're with the same people, and some people can tryhard, some don't, and it's overall just a fun time. Even if the things you end up discussing and "improving" are useless in the long run, like, hey, we had fun. I dunno. 

---

Idk, I just think like, the more that you can take games outside of just the game, the more you can refine gameplay density. So really thinking about improvement systems and tying that back down is important, I think. 

How do you make money with this model? I dunno, I'm dumb and I spent $1500 on anime merch, most of which I regret now, so aint no way I'm doing that again. I also think the coaching model is also a scam and I wish games didn't go towards that model, though I can see the flip side of top players wanting to make their passion give money (I've heard of high level LGMs like tmw, 300iq, etc. charging hundreds of dollars for CP coaching and it's just like... I get it, but it's literally negative value to the world...). 

I can't in good faith use CP as a baseline, since most people just use it as a stepping stone for their real career, while gaming has like 0 transferrable skills. I mean, the goal of my initiative is to make it have some soft transferrable skills (no more brainrotting!), but in the end, even if you brainrot grind CP 24/7, even to an ~expert level, you're going to learn basic math and data structures at the very least and creative problem solving. 

A better example is chess, I think. There's a very long ecosystem of reading materials and resources and stuff, plenty of onlien matchmaking but also tactics grinders especially. The average player isn't incentivized to write their own blog and try to concretize their knowledge system, I guess. There's also some cringe stuff like opening prep which is just a bunch of memorization (which is why I prefer tactics better, again, gameplay density arguments). 

---

I think instead of these general concepts where I try to compare a bunch of things vaguely, I'll start writing about one concept deeply. This mainly wanted to be a blog post about the atomic chess ecosystem, but ended up being this half assed mishmash of things. 